# cppLearning_003

Learning C++ from `C++ Primer 5th edition` written by `Stanley B. Lippman`, `Josée Lajoie`, and
`Barbara E. Moo`. (2013)

- C++11

---
---

To successfully configure and build the subfolders (exercise folders) that are depending on
the `cmake` build system, run either `getGoogleTest.ch` or `getGoogleTest.py` in this folder. 
This downloads the *googletest release version 1.12.1*. This specific version is because we are 
using C++11 concepts. Later versions of googletest require higher versions of C++.

- `googletest` folder is ignored for tracking.
- `ch09/ch09_exrc/checkDoxy` is the folder used for setting up the `cmake`, doxygen document generation and `googletest` environment.
- `ch09/ch09_exrc/checkDoxy/cmakeBuilder.py` can be used to *configure*, *build*, and *launch* the cmake targets. To trigger more targets of cmake, update the python file.
- For better organization, create a separate build directory and run CMake from within it to keep your source and build files distinct.
- For coverage purposes we needed two tools, `gcov` and `gcovr`. These are supported with GCC compiler. That means configuration may fail when using other compilers. These tools can be installed using the commands `sudo apt install gcov` and `sudo apt install gcovr`.

```console
$ doxygen --version
1.14.0
```

### **Note: Following commands shall be executed when inside the `build` folder**
- Command to start the doxygen documentation: `make doc` or `cmake --build . --target doc`.
- Command to start testing: `make test` or `ctest` or `cmake --build . --target test`.
- Command to generate `CTest` based test report (which generates single report): `make ctestXMLReports` or `cmake --build . --target ctestXMLReports`
- Individual test suite reports are generated by googletest automatically when we run `ctest`. You can choose between `xml` and `json` format of output. Configure this variable: `REPORT_FORMAT`.
- Generate unit test coverage reports: `make coverage_report` or `cmake --build . --target coverage_report`. HTMLS reports can be viewed from `unitTest_Coverage/coverage.html`. Flow goes like *configuration* -> *build* -> *test* -> *generate coverage reports*.

### **For test report in HTML format:**

Run `getPythonModulesForVenv.sh`. **OR** Execute Step1 through Step5 in this location.

- Step1: `sudo apt install python3.11-venv`
- Step2: `python3 -m venv venv`
- Step3: `source venv/bin/activate`
- Step4: `pip install junit2html`
- Step5: `deactivate`

If you already have python environment with `junit2html`, you can update the variables `PY_VENV_NAME` and `PY_VENV_DIR`.

- **NOTE:** The script/commands does add necessary scripts to the repo. Must successfully run to successfully build the exercise/projects. 

---

[ch01](./ch01/): Getting started

## Part 1: The Basics

[ch02](./ch02/): Variables and basic types

[ch03](./ch03/): Strings, Vectors, and Arrays

[ch04](./ch04/): Expressions

[ch05](./ch05/): Statements

[ch06](./ch06/): Functions

[ch07](./ch07/): Classes

## Part 2: The C++ Library

[ch08](./ch08/): The IO Library

[ch09](./ch09/): Sequential Containers